---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIS IS THE INFORMATION THAT WILL BE POSTED IN THE MIAN BODY OF THE WEBSITE

The Impact of Drug Abuse and Policies on Minorities in United States: Is It Justice or "Just-us?"

--------------------------------------------------------
THESE ARE LINKS TO ARTICLES 

https://drugpolicy.org/about-us

https://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug-policy

https://www.cnn.com/2016/03/23/politics/john-ehrlichman-richard-nixon-drug-war-blacks-hippie/index.html

https://www.addictioncenter.com/drbhatt/

---------------------------------------------------------------------

IS IT JUSTICE OR “JUST-US” ?

The war on drugs campaign was launched in the 1970’s by President Nixon and is still in effect today. President Nixon and his teammates attempted to bring awareness of the negative impacts of drugs to the people of America. A benefit of the campaign is that it brought educated the nation on the side effects of drugs such as heroin, opium and cocaine which led to individuals taking them more seriously. 


THE DRUG WAR DRIVES RACIAL DISPARITY IN THE CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM

The war on drugs brought about policies that are being misused for the incarceration and imprisonment of the black community. According to the Drug Policy Alliance nearly 80% of people in federal prison and almost 60% of people in the state prison for drug offenses are black or latino. The drug policies were not created to help the low income communities, they were created to tear their families a part. As a result of the discrimination against blacks and the misuse of the war on drugs, came about policies that would end drug offenders simple humans rights. A few consequences faced by drug offenders are policies that denied child custody, voting rights, employment, business loans, etc. These policies were clearly created with the intent to keep black people from progressing. Individuals who were not native Americans or born here would face harsh consequences when caught using drugs, deportation and detention being a part of the list. As a nation we must  hope to be successful at such task as we advocate for the legal system to decriminalize drug possession, make changes to the policies that will remove the harsh sentencing, provide diversity programs and so on.
UNJUST CONSEQUENCES FROM THE WAR ON DRUGS CAMPAIGN
Blacks comprised 43% and Whites 55% of persons convicted of drug felonies in state courts; Black people account for 53.5% and Whites for 33.3% of persons admitted to state prisons for new convictions for drug offenses.

The legal system in America then and now made it their jobs to heavily criminalize blacks who were caught doing drugs, giving them the harshest possible punishments. Severals bills were passed to ensure mass incarceration of black drug users. One most evident being the Comprehensive Crime Control and Safe Act in 1984. It is evident that this bill was not created to gain control of the drug use in America as it eliminates parole in the federal system which resulted in the upsurge of prisoners, black prisoners to be specific. Another horrific bill called the Violent Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1994 was passed. The nightmares of the minority communities seemed to have no end as the legal system continues to misuse the drugs policies to terrorize them. Federal law enforcement and unfair prosecutorial practices resulted in the black people disproportionately arrested, convicted and imprisoned for the use and distribution of illicit drugs.  After years of marching and fighting for justice the minorities were able to get a taste of justice at the tips of their tongues. The Second Chance Reentry bill and the 2010 Fair Sentencing Act were passed. Though not enough these bills immediately helped to reduce the conviction and imprison of the minorities for the use of illegal drugs. Other bills were passed such as the Sentencing Reform and Correction Act of 2015 and First Step Act of 2018. Many black prisoners were release from prisons while others got reduced sentencing.We must not be satisfied with the norm, but work toward institutionalizing the demand for standard of decency that values transformative change. 
